[Music]
me
[Applause]
[Music]
foreign
[Applause]
[Music]
foreign
m
[Music]
a
is
[Music]
foreign
[Applause]
[Music]
foreign
uh
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Applause]
[Music]
foreign
it's a pleasure to have you
on this particular session today
with mother's grace uh
we'll try and conduct this session we'll
try and learn through your experience
and we'll try and
learn
or try to get to know about the time
that you spend with Mother uncle so
we'll start the session with a small
meditation session so that everyone who
is listening can go into
thoughtless awareness can go into
nirvicharita
so
with mother's permission then
we would like to start the session
Jai Shri Mataji everybody
we will just
raise our kundalini
and slowly put abandon
so
just close our eyes all of us
try to put our attention on the
sahasrara
with the prayer
Mataji, we are humbly
trying to
record this session
with the
blissful moments
we have spent with
our Dear Mother Adi Shakti
please give us your blessings
we can say the
three maha mantras
foreign
[Music]
it's just a silent meditation
try to
have our attention on sahasrara
if you have got any thoughts then open
the
eyes and look at the
kumkum of Shri Mataji
you see that the thoughts have
diminished
slowly close your eyes
put their attention on yourself
foreign
uncle the first and foremost thing uh
which i wanted to understand and
which i would like to let our viewers
know as well as to what would be the
objective of today's session
what exactly are we trying to convey or
whatever series that we are trying to
create
what exactly is the objective of this
series what do we want to convey through
these series
yes basically
we had some of us had the good fortune
to be in the company of Adi Shakti when
she was on the Earth
physically
and
the main objective is
that
all those beautiful moments the blissful
moments we had spent with her
i would like to share it with everybody
how it was in the beginning right in the
beginning
that is the first objective
second is
that um
uh my father Paikaka
as he was very well known in mumbai
talked something about him
because
uh
is very well
liked loved in mumbai
and
also
as far as mumbai sahaja yogis are
concerned i'll give you some
some names of some places where you we used
to have the programs
so that
in case
anybody wants to
go and
visit those places they can
and third and last
is also
how it is
with us
after
when Shri Mataji
left for the heavenly abode
this will be a part of
the 100th centenary
of the birthday of Shri Mataji
which is which we are celebrating this
year
this is just um
does this answer your question
yes yes uncle it answers my question
perfectly
so
just to let everyone know this will be a
series of sessions we will try and do
three to four sessions
Avdhut uncle has been part of the
uh sahaja yoga community for a very
longish period of time now i think uncle
since 1972 correct me if i'm wrong
yeah april 1972  so we'll try
and capture
his experiences his thought
his his
his time with mother will try and
capture all these things in these series
so that everyone can listen to them and
benefit out of
uh his experience of the time that he
spend with mother so uncle uh
i have some photographs
that
you have shared with us
some i think these are not publicly
available so i will jump right into
these photographs and then we will talk
about your experience if that is okay
should we proceed ahead
uh yes uh just um
yeah okay it's okay fine
can you put up these photographs and
then we'll try and share
uncle's experiences so this is the first
photograph
yes this was taken in
1973 i remember these years because we
were studying that time i was in SSC
secondary school certificate that was it
was not tenth it was eleven standard so
uh
just after the realization afterwards
Shri Mataji
was  to go to Vasai and
this photo was taken in Vasai you
can see some
old forts behind
and the story happens is that because
of our exams we did not go
and my parents we were staying in
Vikhroli
and
Vasaai on the western line
so
Shri Mataji was to catch a train in bombay
central with all the sahaja yogis and my
parents
that i think so in andheri or Borivali they were
to catch the train and my father thought
shri mataji will not
take
she cannot
take a third class ticket. That time it
was first class and third class
and so he took a first class ticket to
Vasai and then he realized that Shri Mataji
was with all the Sahaja yogis in third
class compartment
so this is a small incident
so that time Shri Mataji went to the uk in
december 1973
that she shifted to uk and after she
used to
come to
to Bombay
and when she's to go she used to hug
all the sahaja yoginis
and
this is what she's hugging one sahaja
yogini
and
uh she used to cry and the sahaja yoginis
also used to cry we also all were
there so this is one of the photos. but i
don't know the year unfortunately
i will tell you as far as possible the
the year
but sometimes i will
not be able to tell you the exact year
yeah so this is one of the photos Shri Mataji
used to come with us She used to sit
with us to eat
and you see she's uh you know left and
right hand side
there are Sahaja yoginis sitting
and it was not a very special place on
the ground She used to eat
so
next
now this is a
photo of uh
Shri Mataji is talking to someone
and
this
on the right hand side of Shri Mataji
there is a small tape recorder uh i
would just like to tell you a small uh
incident about this tape recorder my
father got his realization i mean the
person holding the mic is mr Paikaka
my father so he got his realization
in january 1972 and we came in
april so when he there was uh in bombay
In Cawasji Jahangir hall there were
some seminars and when he attended these
seminars he said that
what Shri Mataji is saying is so
important and
he was so much impressed and he just
thought
somebody should tape these
talks
and some days later his friend told
my
father i would like to sell a tape
recorder because i want to buy a new one
and uh
and my father said yes yes i'm ready to
take. It was rather costly but he said
okay you can
pay me in installments and all that and
since then this tape recorder we have
since about  73 till about 80
and
we used to take this tape recorder
everywhere
and in 80
83 or 84
i was alone at home and Shri Mataji send
a
note with uh
somebody
saying that Avdhut
this
uh
all these spools now we have 36 spools
now each spool is six inches and there is
14 hours of recording there are four
tracks of 3.5 hours each track
so we have 36 pools and
uh you please give all your recordings
to this person and all these recordings
went to uk later on then which came out
later on on amruta and different
places
now we used to
take this uh take this tape recorder
tape  everything
like there is a music of Jitendra Abhishekhi or
Ajit Kadkade etc
and we used to
put it in a small cassette and i used to
do the
postage part of it like post postman and
i should take it to Shri Mataji so that when
she goes back to the uk she can listen
to this uh this music
and this tape recorder is
it's
so it was so precious that time there
was even once Shri Mataji put kumkum on it
so it is just one small incidence
a very important thing
uncle I think all the early talks were
recorded on this only i guess yes yes
yes i'm also just seeing uh the Cawasji
jahangir hall sessions these were on
24th of march 25th of march on 23rd of
march
1973 i can see these sessions online on
amruta.org
so anyone knows
yes yes
if you want to listen to these sessions
these are available on amruta.org as
well three continuous sessions by
Shri Mataji the audio is not that great but
you can read it online the entire
lecture yes
we used to buy a rather
good quality
basf
tape or tdk at that time and in
the beginning my father used to say uh this
is the session uh talk given by Shri Mataji
on such and such topic and used to
give the date
so that even the the
we had a paper also in case that paper
is lost we know what is there in the in
the tape
so we have 36 schools
very helpful for all the Sahaja yogis  uncle
to say the least
in our early talk Shri Mataji has spoken
about a lot of things yes yes a lot of
details
which
and at that time we did not have many so
at home i used to listen to these talks so
many times the same talks like this how
to meditate in nineteen seventy six in Bhartiya Vidya Bhavan
necessity of meditation in 75 in
Dadar
or 76 there was a Gudhi Padwa talk uh
30th march Delhi. so all these talks i
heard so many i don't know how many
times
and uh
it is just a memory
Mayank it would be great if you could just put up
all these links uh
in the
youtube link as well
so this was in january 1977 and
i was sitting behind Shri Mataji on the
[Music]
on the right of Shri Mataji
you can see some of the Sahaja yogis right
in the front on the left hand side there
is mahindra chawan if you
know him
he
expired some years ago then on his left
there is
Mavin Kurway
then also there is Dhumal
uncle
behind the third row
and also there is Warick kaka
which is
you know in the right in the center
behind there is a
person from abroad
he is uh
patrick
uh
grezna's husband and then in front of
him there is Warick uncle
who
used to
be with us uh since very very deep
sahaja yogi
then there are this gavin maureen
and other Sahaja yogis. Ratnannavar uncle
right hand side right behind
then there was Bobdebai
from kolhapur just behind Shri Mataji
on the left. This photo was from Nargol uncle correct me if I am wrong
No it was in Bordi. now previously we used to have uh all
these seminars in Bordi
right from i don't know we came
in 72 but maybe it could be before
and it was till february 85
and in february in december 85 ganapatipule
started
and uh we used to have here. then i
recently heard that Shri Mataji
In Nargol there were no buses or roads not
possible so we used to have that in
Bordi which is not far from Nargol
when you come from bombay to get down at
gholwad station after dahanu
then we used to walk a bit so we had
this
so this was this place we used to stay
there
uh there's a bungalow behind and this uh
was
uh
rented or i don't know lent to us by
this mr diwanji who is on the left of
Shri Mataji is written on the board Diwanji so
this was a small group at that time you
can see we were
rather small i am not there in this
and um
they were about 10-15 persons more
uh so it was a rather small group and
most of these photos uh there's some
from my father has taken but uh many of
them were given to me as a present so
i'm there on the photo
next very nice
Mayank we'll go to the next picture this is
again
this is also the same photo which we saw
just now but from a different angle
until this looks very familiar it looks
like nargol
that was yes
it is the same it is the same sea shore
i think so i don't know how many
kilometers before nargol
just for my understanding until why did
so many sahaja yoga seminars used to
happen on the sea is there any specific
reason for that
because this seashore used to go we or
small but i don't know exactly why on
the seashore
but we uh also i mean this one we used
to go on the seashore just some
incidents come in my head
like Shri Mataji is to sit in water
and
so and she used to have Her feet in the
water uh straight
and as children used to put our head
in water under the Feet of Shri Mataji
and the waves coming in
i'll
you can imagine we used to try to go
under the water because the waves were
coming
and used to take competition who will
stay more more long time
in the feet of Shri Mataji and
we did not know Shri Mataji was really
vibrating this arabian sea so that all
the clouds the vibrated clouds can
can be
you know showered upon uh maharashtra or
other cities uh states
so i think so this was one of the this
was one of the
uh reasons
and also there was in bombay near marwe we
will see that photo later on uh we used
to have also uh some place
where aksha tritiya
you know this akshay tritia is a very
uh
auspicious day
in the
hindu calendar and used to have a puja
the whole day Shri Mataji used to come we
used to hire a bungalow
and
we used to have a puja,  havan
and in the evening once i remember
uh Shri Mataji
uh took all of us
on this wet sand we were about i don't
know about 15, 20, 25 whatever so
she worked on us individually we had
made a round circle and we were standing
on the wet sand and i remember Shri Mataji
told us wet sand is the best element
to absorb all our negativities all our
problems on our chakras
and since then
whenever i go to ganpatipule or any
seashore
we do this for Mooladhara
you can do this three point treatment
wherein you sit on the ground with your
hands behind
and your
heels dug in the in the
the sand wet sand and you
bend your knees so this position that
your hands are behind so your muladhara
is touching the ground your heels is the
muladhara of your feet and your
muladhara your own muladhara
it's all also on the ground so this is
three point treatment we can use
wherever whenever it is possible to
clear our muladhara on the sea shore
just a small incident
so this is also as uh
i think so this is the full group we had
at that time you can see Shri Mataji
right in the middle but i think so she's
looking down
yeah she's right in the
middle this was the total group of
people who was traveling uncle
uh
who had come in the seminar
this is the total number this looks only
around 50 to 100 odd people right maybe
yes
It was very small at that time
yeah yeah so these are all these uh
photos
so uncle you must get a lot of personal
time with Shri Mataji as well that would
have been uh yes yes i mean at that time
we did not realize the importance
of these moments when which we spend with
Shri Mataji but she knew she was preparing
us
yeah we can next please
so in bordi we were doing this uh
puja on the left hand side there is my
father he was
on the first pujari in the
in sahaja yoga
because he knew a lot of mantras this
and that so he was there on the left and
on the right hand side the photo is
not full
but i was pouring water on Shri Mataji's
feet
along with the other small children
Shri Mataji is deeply in meditation
next
now this is i think so
india tour 1980
it should be somewhere on the seashore
and we used to have a havan
the bordi pictures we are just looking at
uncle they were from which year
this is 80.
you know the ones that we just looked at
uncle no no this was this i don't know
this was uh previously it was from 73-74
till
76 i can say because
77 january we had this
we can call them foreign yogis they are
not foreigners uh we can call them
brothers and sisters from abroad who had
come to
uh
to
india for the first time there was this
uh
pat and Grezna
and maureen and
gavin and
all the other people yes
so it was the first time but before that
the first should be between 74 and
seventy six
maybe seven eight years yeah i can see
the first lecture in bordi in 1973
25th of jan 1973 i think this is
that point of time i guess
so Shri Mataji was giving us instructions
to do the havan
and uh
i was writing down jotting down the
points
on the left hand side and
afterwards she used to
completely
how to say organize the havan
exactly as
Divine would want it she used to put
kumkum on our head and everything so
next photo we can see
so this is the
uh
photo where Shri Mataji is putting kumkum
the the left hand side uh
in the red
top is Aradhana Shri Mataji's elder
daughter
granddaughter and anupama her
younger sister
and i am on the right there's another
small boy
okay we'll pause the photos here uncle
we'll have the next round of photos in
the
next session again okay
uh
i just wanted to ask you a few questions
uncle first and foremost i wanted to
understand how did you come into sahaja
yoga
so in the 1970s how were you able to get
into how did you get your realization
now uh
before i go ahead with these questions i
would like to tell uh two three things
that
the fact that we came in sahaja yoga
very much before maybe the others
does not uh make us any more
uh evolved i can say
because when i see some of these
new sahaja yogis especially the young
ones i'm really surprised at the
dynamism their innocence
and
their surrender to Shri Mataji so i
feel that
[Music]
basically
if there's a lift going from the ground
floor to the seventh floor you come on
the first floor
and some people have come on the fourth
floor or fifth floor at the fifth floor
everybody is at the same level
so i basically believe that uh
only we have seen
whatever has happened from first floor
to the fifth floor so
i think so
finally
Shri Mataji kept us
in into sahaja yoga into her
into her
domain because uh
[Music]
it's only the Adi Shakti who desires
who
who decides
whom she should
whom she should take
at the lotus feet of
Shri Sadashiva
so this is the first point and second
point is
that
if
we are uh
expressing some things we are showing
the photos
and we can tell the experiences it will
be the first hand experience is not
somebody
who is um
who has heard some things it'll be a
firsthand experience because uh
we will not be
here for a lifetime
and when we will not be here
there will be some
some recordings remaining
and for those who have never met
Shri Mataji or those have
never seen Shri Mataji in person
so also i
pull my ears if
anywhere my ego interferes
I ask Shri Mataji
that she should forgive me
but it's very close to my
whatever i remember
i'm telling and i'm telling you only the
experiences which are
good which are useful for the
collectivity
and
not very very personal things which
Shri Mataji told us
and
my only one and the only motivation is
that
people should
try to
realize
Shri Mataji not understand realize Shri Mataji
and go into the nirvikalpa state
and this would be a very very
beautiful present if maximum
people can go into this nirvikalpa state
this will be a good present for Her
100th
birthday
sometimes
i could be a bit emotional because
Shri Mataji
literally brought me up
my earthly mother left me left us
when i was rather young i was 27
and
she
brought me up
before 2011 and afterwards we'll come to
that later on
so
sometimes i i really
am
completely in another realm
when i talk about shri mataji
so how we came in sahaja yoga i my
father got his realization in
january
then he brought us to sahaja yoga it was
14th of april
um i was in the 10th standard and
that time Shri Mataji was
giving
realization in Her house which was situated
in
um
Nepean sea road
satelwad cross road when you go on this
road on the left hand side
at the corner there was a building
called jivanjyot
and i think so it was on the second
second floor i think
uh sir cp had a
flat
there and there i got my realization so
in beginning we used to go to her house
every morning she used to
give realization
so when we went
that day also
and she used to sit with her legs like
this
and
people used to go on her legs and on the
hands also she used to massage so when my
turn came it was on the left hand of
Shri Mataji
and she put a
Ramtirtha brahmi oil on my head
and i still remember
and she said how do you feel i said fine
she asked me my name and she liked it
that was my first experience
what was your experience of feeling the
vibrations for the first time
while meditating with mother how was it
what did you experience
basically when we
at least for me in the beginning
i did not feel vibrations at all
and
we used to have a public program
in
Bhartiya vidya bhavan
chowpati mumbai
on the third floor we had a gita mandir
hall
where we used to have morning evening
public programs
in 73 and 74 onwards when Shri Mataji used to
come
we used to have just
in the evenings very regularly
and
that time Shri Mataji used to come she used
to talk we used to tape
and
with our tape recorder and then we used to
go on Her feet
after every single public program
and
before us the new people when we give
them realization
they used to go on mother's feet and
used to work on them
and
we used to tell which
finger we are
slightly feeling
uh catches we used to work on them
and then slowly and gradually i started
feeling the vibrations
but i cannot tell you exactly each date
or which time
i started feeling vibrations
so it was a slow process for your uncle
yes
feeling of vibrations yes it took some
time right uncle yes i think that's a
very important message for all the yogis
yes who are trying to
trying to seek that it might take some
time but
yes uh when it comes to you it will it
will stay with you forever exactly it's
it's an irreversible process it's like
once you
from a small sapling you become a tree
you can't become a sapling again
and
Shri Mataji talks about it in one talk i
don't remember
she says that once you become a tree
you cannot become a small
small tree again when you grow up
yes
okay okay i've been just wanted to know
any uh any experience that you might
have uncle i
it says that you know through
our karmas are cleaned or we get cleaned
physically so any experience that you
would like to share on this particular
front how exactly does Shri Mataji clear
our karmas or how does sahaja yoga help
in clearing our karma any any personal
experience that you'd like to share
yes
so uh
this is a very
uh strong experience i had two really
very very strong experiences
one of them is
about my cigarette
uh
you know as a
young boy
uh when i used to go to the college and
all that we used to go with the friends
for um
a picnic once in a year
we used to have the
uh
saturday sunday we used to go somewhere
like lonavala, mahableshwar
and everyone used to drink smoke so
i also used to smoke not drinking
because i really couldn't right from the
beginning even smell i can't bear it
so
smoking yes two three cigarettes for the
whole night and just for fun
and
then the last time i had smoked
that time was
in
february or january end 76 and I was
with some other friends and i smoked
and
on fifth or sixth of
february
i think so it was a panchami puja in
bombay in mumbai
so that time used to have a lot of pujas
and there was uh
acharyabai
one of these 12 uh sahaja yogis who got
realized in the beginning so on her
terrace we had this puja
and
after the puja every puja we used to go on
mother's feet
so when i went on mother's feet Shri Mataji
suddenly said how did you smoke
and my heart literally stopped
because i smoked just one
week before
and
i still remember Acharyabai
saying Avdhut will never
smoke and all that but i knew what that
in my heart i knew that it
was
the real thing
so um
again i used to go with my friends to
for this um
[Music]
for the picnics
and two three cigarettes per year
continued
and in 78
or 79
uh 78-79 whatever so he went to Dhulia and
Shri Mataji wanted uh
some Sahaja yogi to put hand on her
vishuddhi because that time you used to
put the hand on the different
Chakras like Vishuddhi, agnya to take out the
vibrations
so she said i want some
man who has never smoked in his life i
want him to
put his hand on my
vishuddhi
and of course the indians they used to
have beedis and foreigners also
so they everybody said Avdhut why don't
you go and i put my head down and i said
no let anybody say anything but i will
not
go again because i have smoked and i
told Shri Mataji in
front of everybody i had smoked
i forgot about the incident but
Shri Mataji did not
and uh we were there for the whole
day in the evening there was a public
program
in a small village where uh
in the hall inside there is light but
outside there is pitch darkness and we were
there i was in one another sahaja yogi Suryavanshi
and suddenly i had some
uh cigarette smell in my
my hand in my fingers i don't know if it
was both vishuddhi fingers but at
least on the right side
and i said oh god
where is this coming from and i told
this
suryashi you are the proof that i did
not smoke see the smell he said yes yes
and we used to stay in Raoulbai’s
bungalow
so
i quickly very discreetly went and
washed my hands very nicely with soap
and dried it and the smell was exactly
there as if i put my
finger in the tobacco
uh
paste for one year it was very strong
and
then i said it's a real problem
and when Shri Mataji used to be there
at that time we could go to her room so i
went and knocked and
i told Shri Mataji that my fingers are
smell of cigarette
and she said okay okay come
and she took my my
two fingers
like this and she held my two fingers
in her hand
vishuddhi fingers for two three minutes
and i was just there
then she left and said okay now you
you see if you feel
if you have the smell
and i saw that the smell had gone
so Shri Mataji said
because
you had
accepted this morning that you have
smoked i have cleaned you completely
i've taken out that
smoking cigarette smoking
incident out of your life
so now if you tell anybody that i've
never smoked in my life that will be
true she told me all these words
almost
and later on i said that she said now
promise me again that you will never
smoke
said yes and obviously afterwards i
never touched a cigarette
and
then uh in the west
i had this um
brain scan for mri scan for some for the
brain
the doctor said your brain is so clear
we have seen that
you have never smoked in your
life because otherwise there are stains
and even the doppler some
that this and another doctor told me the
same thing
so it was i said yes i've never smoked
in my life
so how Shri Mataji
takes out our karmas from whatever we have done
the brilliant experience to hear
literally went into thoughtless
awareness
uh
listening to the entire experience
uh yes i can see i can see
uh myself going to that room on the
first floor of
Raoulbai’s
bungalow
and Shri Mataji holding my fingers
so
you just wanted to understand
you spoke about how Shri Mataji clears
our karmas
so
we it's also said that she cleans us
physically until any experience that you
would like to relate
on that particular front where you know
she would have cleaned you physically
you could actually feel that
yes so uh
basically um
this photo which we
we have not yet seen which maybe we will
see it next time is place called
nilambar it's on the peddar road on the
13th floor we were
having
a flat
and i had uh
Can you put up that photo please it would be
great if you can see the photo
so this photo
this is the one which um
yeah
after my B. Sc in 78
uh i was trying for M. Sc i could not get
and Shri Mataji had just come
my father said well you can go with
Shri Mataji wherever
she goes and all that so it was the best
moment of my life
almost a year i was with Shri Mataji
i was in this flat and
I used to take care of
the
there was a cook
i used to go with him for buying things
and as far as uh
money was concerned i used to buy
Times of india for Shri Mataji every day
morning
so she was there in one room and she
used to go to some
uh places to come back but we were there
so
this was um
in Nilambar
so
your question was about the
uh physically cleaning
because what happened was once we had
this uh
public program or puja in Birla Krida kendra in Chowpat
and the whole day i was outside in the
sun and i'm very sensible to the sun
sensitive means i can get affected
so
in the evening we were sitting in front
of Shri Mataji and every day evening it was
just a laughter session Shri Mataji used to
make us laugh like anything
a lot of
jokes and
but i was having a terrible headache and
Shri Mataji said what's the problem Avdhut
i said i've got really a very very
strong headache because of because i
went in the sun so she said
come and she told me to put my
hand right hand on her liver
so i was there
5-10 minutes when she was laughing talking
a thing
and my hand was there
and uh
in about
10-15 minutes i felt like vomiting and
like a diarrhea i said
i want to go to the toilet she said yes
so i really vomited and all this bile
and came out and even the toilet
then i came out
whole headache went out in just
some few minutes
Then Shri Mataji asked me how do you feel now
said yes fine fine
so this is how she can physically clean
us
she can physically clean us
wow
that's really nice to know so so this
essentially mother cleared out all the
negativities like this it came out in in
form of bile or diarrhea is this what
happened uncle
uh it's not it's not basically
negativity we can say it's more of a
physical cleaning
because um
there was also for example when you go
in the sun i
typically remember this place is first
called as
uh satnam apartments
where Kalpanadidi
was staying. When Shri Mataji used to come she
was mostly staying this kalpana didi’s
house
and this place in satnam apartments
i used to go
as i said
to give the cassettes or any other
things and
once when i was going i met Shri Mataji
in the lift
and i don't remember whether she put her
hand on my head but anyway she said you
put your head hand on your head
in the left she said and then i put i
said it's hot
said yes it's hot
very very hot she said yes
so she asked me from where are you
coming i said Sachivalaya so Sachivalaya to this
uh
to this uh
cuff parade is rather far
so she said no no you should always put
a cap on your head when you are going
out in the sun
so all those things i remember basically
it's
uh just to protect us it's
not a negativity i would not say sort of
a negativity or anything okay
okay
often heard from a lot of
older sahaja yogis that mother used to
actually know what is going on in our
mind any instance that you know you
would have faced with mother wherein she
actually knew what was going on in your
mind and you were surprised
as to yeah
uh the first incident is that um
i always from my childhood had some
uh problem with my left ear
and at some point
it was even operated before and it was
leaking i put some drops and antibiotics
whatever
so nothing worked and i was with Shri Mataji
and uh
i said Shri Mataji can you please see my
ear
so i said um
she said what what's the problem i said
it's there's a problem it's uh
not stopping uh to leak and all that so
she said okay you bring she took my ear
in her hand
with the right hand she took my left ear
and she started blowing in my ear
and suddenly a thought came in my
my mind
uh
whatever all those uh
all those antibiotics or these drops did
not work
what such a just uh uh
she's
she
what this blowing will help
i took a doubt on her
blowing in my ear
she immediately left the hand and she
said
why are you doubting
why are you thinking like this she said
why are you thinking like this
you know i am putting the pranava in
your ear though
that time i did not even know the
meaning of Pranava
and she
she said i'm putting the pranava in your ear
i pulled my ears but of course it was
too late
so this is one of the things and
another thing which was
i remember was we were in rahuri
and
we used to have this
food in the afternoon evening and all
that so afternoon after the food people
they started saying this ukhane
in marathi we say we call it couplets
you can say
in english
so there were these are the small poems
which should rhyme
and
everybody used to say
some people said
why don't you tell Avdhut
and
immediately i prepared some co in
my head but Shri Mataji didn't ask
and
in the evening again we had this
session of
couplets
and again some people said why
don’t you ask Avdhut
then finally she asked
and I told this couplet I still remember : Tatat vati vatit dana, janmojanmi Sahaja yoga milude hich aai charni prarthana
Meaning : In the plate there is a small bowl and in that there is dhana means
means some dry legume
let me have
sahaja yoga in all my lives and this is
the prayer i
say in the feet of Shri Mataji
so when i said this
Shri Mataji said immediately
but this you had prepared in the afternoon
this is not a new one
i said yes mother
Even to prepare one also it is so difficult
so of course i did not say yes i said
and then she said
how did i
know
how did i know
uh
you don't know what to say
and also once what happened was in the
big
we used to stay in Vikhroli
it was um
my father's to work in godrej
and where this staff quarters building
is C 9/4 now previously it was
nine by four it is now c nine by four
and uh Shri Mataji came to our house three
times
and
[Music]
from there to nilambar in grand road
very far
so one day early in the morning we had
to go there my sister and myself and
normally we should take bath in the
morning but we said no no we will
we did not have time so we went
directly
and then there was some foreign sahaja
yogis there in this Nilamber
and  Shri Mataji told them
you see
this brother and sister they've come all
the way early in the morning
and they they take their bath every day
now they have taken their bath in the
morning and they came here
i looked at my sister
we didn't know where to look
so
it is just like that Shri Mataji was
teaching us that when you go to see
Adi Shakti you
you take your bath and
try to be as
pure as possible from outside and from
inside
so these are some of the instances where
i can say that Shri Mataji knew what's going
on in our mind
yes
uh moving on i just wanted to understand
uh
how mother used to protect her children
what what
have you felt that ever
the protection coming in from mother
what yes your thought process on that
again that was the second instance which
really marked uh
very much
as i told you before we had this
public program
morning and evening
in Bhartiya Vidya bhavan so it was the
evening program
i was as usual sitting in front to tape
and suddenly Shri Mataji looked
at somebody with a glance like
Kataksha (stern glance)
it was a very stern glance
and uh i saw later on that it was um
sadhu maharaj with a big beard
and long hair and
he came and just sat behind
we had this
program we you know everybody went
on mother's feet and it was finished and
before Shri Mataji was about to go he
came from the left
and he came from the other side
as if he's
uh
you know sort of want to block the way
of Shri Mataji to go
so we were ready to sort of intervene in
he does something to Shri Mataji
because in the big i was very curious
and i asked him does he want us to work
on him or anything
and he just with his hand he said just
sort of leave me alone
so
but my
whole evening my attention was on him
and then um
when he came in front of Shri Mataji
he sort of literally fell on Shri Mataji's
feet like a
coconut tree would fall and Shri Mataji
just
uh
put her i think so the agnya finger or
thumb on his agnya
and uh he gave a very big sigh of relief
like he's
like this and he went away and uh
Shri Mataji went and then later on we asked
Shri Mataji
what happened who was he
Shri Mataji said that they are hatha yogis
they come from the himalayas
and
they know that i am here
now all we know all of us that only
Adi Shakti can give realization
and so he knew that i am here and
these people when their kundalini is blocked
on the agnya chakra and when it is blocked
it is very painful like 100 bees stinging
at the same time
so when i put my finger on that on his
agnya
the kundalini
shot up and he got his realization and
that was very very blissful for him
and he felt relieved and he went away
and
we were quite surprised and then later
on she said
immediately she said that
you sahaja yogis you don't feel that
much
pain or that much
uh
you know
the pain in your agnya chakra for example
when your kundalini is blocked you can
feel on your little pressure on your
agnya or
on your finger etc
because umbrella of my protection is
always there on your head
so
it was such a big thing to i remember
that very much
basically also it was the
third floor and we wanted to catch
Shri Mataji before she goes in the car
and before the lift goes down you have
to
run
so we ran very fast and we asked Shri Mataji
uncle about these sadhus, they used to come to mother's
program quite often
they used to
no no no no uh
that's what i heard before Shri Mataji
went in the himalayas and they said that
we will come
come to
help you
when things will be ready because they
they did not
believe in
compassion love and
their method is different
there was this
you must have heard
Gagangad maharaj
so he was the one who
who
was rather more close
with Shri Mataji
and
[Music]
he
we had a tape like that and he said that
when
Shri Mataji was born he could see
all chakras the sri chakra lalita
chakra coming on the ground and he knew
that adi shakti had taken birth
on
on the
earth
and we had this talk somewhere and this
it was in marathi
and he said that sabhya vhaila pahije
means you have to be
good people so this is
something unfortunately i don't have
this
this all these marathi talks
uh should be somewhere in the amruta
but
we never had these uh
real people coming
to our programs
i don't know if i i uh yeah yeah yeah
uncle i i got the reply thank you so
much
uh uh just moving ahead like a like this
small little things that i'm trying to
understand
what or how exactly would mother fulfill
our desires you know we have small
little things that keeps going on at the
back of our head
um so any instances that you would like
to quote on that particular front end
yes like uh small instances in Rahuri
when i was a young boy i used to run
about doing a lot of organization this and
that and it was a oval table
and we had to all sit
for lunch
and uh
all the
everybody had sat
and there was one chair left on the left
hand side of Shri Mataji so
i took the chair i said
and they used to give us these chapatis
and i used to like these chapatis with
butter
for us it was without butter and for
uh Shri Mataji it was
with butter
so they brought
hot chapaties with butter for Shri Mataji
i think so there were three or four
and
suddenly Shri Mataji took one
chapati and put in my plate
and
i said no no Shri Mataji she said no no i
know you like it
i did not really maybe i had that desire
but i don't know really but she knows
how what you like and how it
happens in your head
also another thing was that we were in
sholapur
uh it was mostly in 78-79 i don't know
the year exactly
and uh there was a room in which we were
there
and when we were
[Music]
going out at about 10.30- 11.00 pm
suddenly an idea thought came in my head
i said what vibrations i knew there was
somebody sleeping in this room i didn't
know who
and i said that person who is going to
sleep here is really what a lucky person
and
then we went to sleep in another room
and suddenly
uncle dhumal  came to our room and he
said is everybody
okay there
i said yes yes we are fine he
said Avdhut if you don't have
a place there you can come to our room
Shri Mataji's room he was sleeping there i
did not know before say yes yes yes so i
took my
uh my bedding
and went
i slept in that room where Shri Mataji
was sleeping
it was a rectangular room i still
remember
on one edge mataji was sleeping the
other edge there was
uncle dhumal
and i was in the middle there were two
beds i was in the middle on the ground
and between me and uncle dhumal there was
this toilet
and when i came to the room
Shri Mataji was already asleep
at least the lights were off
and on
so at some point in the night i felt
suddenly some
on the left uh
i think so
they left uh
left side
somebody touching my body
and suddenly open my eyes Shri Mataji had
crossed over me
to go to the toilet because
the room was not very big and if i sleep
parallel to Shri Mataji's bed
uh
there's no other way to go to
the toilet and perhaps She did not see me
suddenly i got up and i realized it was
four o'clock and uh
i was in Shri Mataji’s room and suddenly
obviously the sleep went away
and Shri Mataji came out and when she went
inside Dhumalji said
Shri Mataji is
cleaning Sholapur for the whole night she's
been vomiting
and
i was just waiting and she came out and
from four to six
at that time I used to massage Shri Mataji's
feet quite often
and many times she used to tell me to
massage her left nabhi
and i did not know she was working on my
left nabi at that time
and then we were talking about somethings
and then i told Shri Mataji
you know last night when i was about to
go to bed
i thought what good vibrations here and the
person who is sleeping what a lucky
person she said
that's exactly why i called you here
she just said that
it just got
means it's just because of your
thought
i i brought you here
then also
another thing was in
78 i think so it was january something
you were in Dhulia that famous incident
in Dhulia
december of
78 or january 79
so my mother was there, physical mother
and she was
she went back to bombay afterwards and
we came to delhi
and she had lost her sweater
so
she said that since you're in delhi you
can get good sweaters there
why don't you buy one for me
so when we came to delhi there was one
mr varma he used to
go with Shri Mataji for shopping
and many people they gave some presents
to Shri Mataji – sari,
blouse piece or a lot of things
and i just said in my hand I said i am
a student i don't even
uh earn anything and i don't know what
to offer Shri Mataji
to offer Shri Mataji something
good
anyway the thought went out and then i
told this Varma uncle i said when you are
going out
can you please buy a sweater for
for my mother
and
[Music]
he said okay then we went and he came
home he said ah
Shri Mataji really like the sweater
I said what sweater , he
said the sweater I
bought for Shri Mataji
yes yes you asked me to buy sweater for
Shri Mataji
i told my mother
physical mother and he taught shri
mataji
and it was a very lovely kashmiri
sweater
and
so see
my thought i really wanted to buy
something but
i did not have that
you know
maybe
capability or to buy and suddenly this
was the last piece remaining and Shri Mataji
liked it
see
how whatever you think whatever you have
this desire it works and it's not only
when Shri Mataji is here let me just tell
you
even even
later on even after 2011
if
your desire is pure
all your desires will be fulfilled
Shri Mataji says in
a talk
The powers of sahaja yogis
1980 all your desires
so just we have this desire purity of
our desire
and that will have to work
did i answer your question yes yes uncle
yes
very nice experience to hear all these
things uncle
uh
actually we spoke about desires we spoke
about how she protects her children um
slightly on the meditation side uncle
we keep hearing about the fourth
dimensions uncle any uh instance that
you would like to quote on that
yes
basically in 77 we went to jaipur
as i told you i was a postman for my
for my father
and uh so we had this uh you know this
very
these are uh
imitation pearls  but very very
good quality like real pearls in jaipur
very famous and then there was this
bandini sari very famous
so my father he said  we
buy for Shri Mataji and
we went uh
[Music]
we bought
and then i took this sari and
this uh small
small garland for Shri Mataji
and
Shri Mataji said no no why are you bringing
all this
and
i
i tried to be smart
and i said Shri Mataji all what you gave in
us was in three dimensions
whatever we are giving in three
dimensions but what you have given us is
in fourth  dimension
so
immediately she said
so give me back in fourth dimension
is this
should give her back in the fourth
dimension
uncle any small instance
that you would like to quote
of mother's love for her children
you know she would particularly take
care of her children
yeah yeah very much we
uh in
75, 76, 77 maybe those years
for Her birthday
we used to have a pandal on the terrace
of one building
which was situated in opposite the
garden which is the adjacent of
Siddhi Vinayak Prabhadevi temple
this building is demolished now
but there we used to have every saturday
meeting
and we used to have
birthday programs on the terrace there
was a pandal and
Shri Mataji used to come like
9 or 10 in the morning
and
we used to have
puja, havan
in evening bhajans or whatever bhajan
we could call it
we had some small bhajan
and
we used to eat together
and then after the puja
at times
we were not enough people
to absorb Her vibrations
so and
maybe we did not have that
capacity
so she used to tell us to put she used
to sleep like this (horizontal)
and we used to put the hand on her
the men on the head on the back
and the ladies
the legs and all that
to absorb the vibrations so
like um
uh
once Shri Mataji she'll she'll say Avdhut
where are you
i said i am on the heart also come a
little bit down yes now go on the
right go on the left like this see
so she will tell like this so then
she used to
allow us to to
take the vibrations out
and one thing i may just
tell that we had at that time lot of
possibilities
many times to massage her head
there was this Silvikrin
lotion
it was a green
liquid
for a massage
and even she
allowed us to
use it also little bit and very cooling
she used to massage with that
and
in one of the talks Shri Mataji said even
brahma vishnu mahesh  could not
touch her head and she allowed us to
touch her head
so what is
i i would say the
the
how much she had given us the liberty
so we used to be there whole day
and in the evening about nine where
there was light and all but
she used to go home
and in one of these years i don't know
which year
there was this uh
mr arun pradhan's car 8595
so we used to take that  there were a
lot of
garlands
and uh they said why don't you come to
help to take the garlands upto this flat in the satnam
apartments
i went
and in her flat there were so many
people standing
inside plus outside
they were the colleagues of sir cp who who had
come two three four hours
maybe more
to wish Shri Mataji
for her birthday
and Shri Mataji was with us
and Shri Mataji she was with us how much
time she gave us
how much time she had given us
so when i think of these incidents
really
i go in another world another realm
very difficult
vibratory flow in the entire session
has been excellent
but today was a difficult day at office
i i to be very frank i felt completely
cleansed during the session
i think the session can go on and on and
on i think the only experiences that
we've spoken about are between the 70s
and the 80s
but i think
we should end this session here with a
small meditation session
and
carry forward
with other experiences in the next
session to the people who are listening
we are creating a series of
these videos in which we'll try and
listen to all Avdhut uncle's experiences
with mother
his experiences
post mother was not there uh in her
physical form so we'll keep having these
sessions we are planning to have three
four of such sessions but we'll end
today's session here um jay shivajinkal
with mother's permission uh
if it is okay we would it would be if we
can go to in for a small meditation
session
and then we look at ending this
particular session yeah
okay
so we can
i'll go into meditation
the mantra which helps me a lot
to go into this
state of nirvikalpa
is just to
remember that
mataji
nirmala devi
who is the ideati
power of god
demon desert
you read human beings
but she was a maha maya
i always felt that
the demons can come as gods why not god
come as human beings
fully camouflaged
so she came
she chose us
as her children
my only desire english
is that
she should not
feel in any way disappointed for giving
us the realization
our entire behavior thoughts words and
deeds
should be molded in such a way
should be hover sahaja yogi
i'm a sahaja yogi
let's remember this
it should regard us into meditation
put our attention on the sahasrara
shall we sing the three maha mantras
[Music]
sri
is
[Music]
my
[Applause]
[Music]
foreign
[Applause]
[Music]
is
[Applause]
[Music]
more
[Applause]
[Music]
no
she
[Music]
it was a wonderful session today by
mother's grace there were
a huge amount of vibrations as well
with a very
brilliant experience in terms of
experiencing
richard during this session as well
so i wanted to thank you i want to thank
mother for the wonderful experiences
that we had today
and with this we would like to close
this session but today to everyone who's
listening uh we'll be circulating links
for the next session as well shortly as
i mentioned there would be
at least three to four sessions uh which
would be a part of this series we will
try to capture
abdut uncle's
overall experiences about sahaja yoga as
well as the time that he has spent with
mother
as well as any kind of advice that he
would like to uh give to new yogis who
would want to know and understand more
about yoga
so with this we would like to end the
session session here
thank you thank you so much
[Music]